Global variable vs Local Variable?

Global variable is the variable which is defined at the class level but not inside the method.

here defined is called as declaration.

---- inside the class, outside the method--- creation-----Global variable

when we create a variable as global variable, and if you are not intializing it to any value, then the compiler will take , default value based on the datatatype

int==0
boolean===flase
double===0.0
float====0.0
byte==0
char =' '
long=0


once you declare the variable as a global variable, you can access them in every of the program.

variables declared inside a method, not outside a method,called it as local variables.
localvariables can only be accessed within the method itself.
we can not access them outside a method.

there few rules applicable on the local variables.

1.When you create a variable inside a method , and it is not intialized to any value. when we try to access the un-intialized variable then the compiler will throw an exception

2.i have a variable as a global variable either intialized or not intialized., similarly i have same variable as a local variable, is it acceptable? if yes what is the value that will be considered by the compiler?

Yes, we can have same variable name as global and aswell as local also.

by default the prefference is given to local variable.

to differentiate the local variable and the classlevel global variable we use the keyword called as "this"

this is a keyword whoch is used to represent the current class variables and method.

Note: this keyword can not be used inside the static block.

3.Can i declare a static variable as local variable? if yes why ? if No why?
No... because for the static memebers the memory will be allocated by teh class.
as your variable is inside a method, by default the class can ot allocate the memory to the static memebers inside a method.

4.i want to make a variable to utlized everywhere , but i dont want to change the value.
for example i have a results output path stored inside a variable, i need to use ths variable where ever it is required but i dont not want to change the path. what is the solution?

make the variable  as final;

remeber that :
when you make a variable as final. we can not change the value
when you make a variable as final. we should intailaize the value
final keyword can be used inside a method.


