what is meant by method ?

method is called as a block of code which is used to write business logic inside it for the purpose of reusability

when i start writting any logic, i should think if thiat particular logic , will be reusable at any where?

if you think that is reusable, then we should create amethod for that logic.


in java to create a method there is a specific syantax available.


accessspecifier static/instance returntype methodName()
{

}

accessspecifier is used to tell the compiler about the accessing. access specifier will restrict the user and control the accessing of the method.

in java access specifiers are called as 

	* public
	* private
	* protected
	* default

static/Instance:these two terms are very important and play a major role in java.
these repreent the memory management in java

return type:
if your logic is perform some opertaion and if you want to send back any data, say like the output of the logic to the user , then we use return type.

basically for the return type we use a datatype here.
when you dont have any value to return back to the user, then we use void as a return type.

void represent that particular method is not returning any value from the method.

methodName:
it is the name given to the method, it have same rule applied what ever we have on the variable.



to access the method available in the class, it is based upon the type of method.

check what type of method it is? is it a static method or a instance method?

how to identify?
if there is a static keyword, then it is called as static method
if there is not static keyoword then it is called as instance method.


if the method type is static , we can access it by using the classname.

syntax:
className.methodName();


if the method is a instance method, then access them by using an object

syntax:
ClassName refVarible=new ClassName():

here new ClassName() is called as an object.

here the major difference between static or instance is?

for all static memebers, class will allocate memeory

for all instance memebers object will allocate memeory.

when ever we create an object , a new memory reference with unique address wil be craeted.


when you try o create a method, see if the logic get execute with different set of data.

if your logic is expecting any input data , never try to hardcode it. always try to pass a value to the method.

accepting values by a method is called as "Parameters"

sending values to the method is called as "Arguments"


number of parameters must be equal to number of arguments vise versa.


parameters must be specified with the datatype and a variableName.
paremeters must write with in the ().of a method




How to return a value from a method?

to return a value from a method, we should use return keyword inside a method

if a method is returning a value, we can store it in an variable.

note:
after the return keyword, we are not allowed to write any logic.
when there is return keyword available, the method will think that it is the end of a block.

when we attempted to write any logic after the return keyword, it will throw an exception saying that unreachable code.



where will i use this method implementation?

as QA i should know where and how exactly i will be using this method implemenation?

TC01:
1.Launch application
2.Click Register link
3.Verif user navigated to register page
4.Fill the form
5.click on save button
6.verify the user is registered sucessfully on the system.


TC02:
1.Launch application
2.Click login link
3.Verif user navigated to login page
4.Enter UserName and PassWord
5.click on login button
6.verify the user is login into the system sucessfully 

TC03:
1.Launch application
2.Click login link
3.Verif user navigated to login page
4.Enter UserName and PassWord
5.click on login button
6.verify the user is login into the system sucessfully 
7.Go to profile settings
8.Add or modify the userdata
9.Click on the save buttonn
10.verify the data is saved on the system sucessfully.







