Polymorphisim:

ability to have more than one form.

in simple word on method with different behaviours or logic

to define the concept of polymorphisi we should know about method overriding and overloading

method overloading:

same class
same method name
different parameters
return type can be any
access specifiers can be of any type



method overriding:

different class(inheritance)
same method name
same params
return type can be a subtype
private methods can not be overide
lower to higher access modifiers are not allowed
static method will not overide



i have a parent class with 2 methods and child class which is overiding the parent class method1,

mean that both parent and child class having same methods

now if i create an object to the child class which method will get executed?

remember that, compiler will always gives the priority of overrided methods only


i have one more scenario, i have given refference to the parent class but i created object to my child class, questions are?

Parent p=new Child();

1.when i use my object which class methods will get visible?//parent
2.when i have overided methods which class method will get executed?//only overrided method will get executed



Role of a constructor in inheritance?


we all know that when ever we craete a class , by default there will be a default no argument constructor wil be available in the background.

when we have inheritance applied, the behaviour of the constructor will be different.

if there is inheritance applied, parent class constructor having zero argument based constructor, child class is not having any constrcutor in place, 

when we create an object to the child class, the parent class constructor will called

why?

by default when there is a child class constructor available, therre will be a method available called super(), which point to zero argument based constrcutor available at the parent class.




parent class having parametrized constructor, child class is not having any constructor, what is the behaviour?

Error, why ? when there is no constrcutor available for the child class, there will be a defauly constrcutor created and that default constrciutor will have super() method which is pointing to the parent class zero arguments constrcur ,

as there is no 0 args constructor available in the parent class , error will be thrown,

now the child class will demand, to havr parametrized constr in thee child class.
