If we want to write a program in java, we must need a class file
class file is a place holder where we can write core business logics in java.

so first understand what is the  structure  of a class file

syntax:

class ClassName{

	1. variables
	2. methods
	3. constructor
	4. static block
	5. instance block
}

when we want to write the logic inside a class, we need to write in between the curly braces.

when we want to execute the logics taht were written, there should be a main method available as a mandatory.

the JVM will scan the whole class, to find if there is a main method available or not.

if there is a main method avilable, user can find a run option enaled on the class file to execute program.


so in class file there are 5 major components available


	1. variables
	2. methods
	3. constructor
	4. static block
	5. instance block

when we know about these components and their uses, user can write logics in java easily.

Understand about variables in java

1.variable
variable is called as a memory holder to store the data where user can user any where in the program written java

if we want to store the data inside a variable, we must required a empty memory block.

to create a empty memory block, we need to craete a variable.

creation of variable is called as declaration.



when we create a memory block, we need to insert data into it.
inserting data into the memory block is called as "intilaization"


to see the data that is staored in a variable, we must need access them by the name of a variable.


How to create a variable?

before we create a variable, we need to tell the compiler, that what type of data are we going store inside a variable.

such that based on the datatype, space will allocated in the memory for a vvariable to store teh data.


datatype is the one which specify that what type of data are we going to store

there are two types of datatypes available in java


	* primitive datatype
	* non primitive datatype


primitive datatypes:

	* boolean
	* char
	* byte
	* short
	* int
	* long
	* float
	* double

all these datypes are mainly foused size management in the memory


boolean --- 1 bit

char ---- 2 bits

short -- 2 byte
byte --- 1 byte
int --- 4 bytes
long --- 8 bytes
float--4 bytes
double -- 8 bytes


boolean is used to store true or false values inside a varible.

'a',;b'

int------>> it is used to store the integral data in the java programming.

its max value is -2147483 to 2147483


ex: 100000 to -200000

long data:100000L to -200000
-9223..... to 9223.....

float is used to store decimal values


synatx to create a variable:

datatype variableName;
the above syntax is called as variable declaration

inserting data into the memory block is called as intialization

syntax:

variableName= somevalue;


user can avoid writting multiple lines in creating a variable.

synatx:
datatype variableName=some value;


i have 4 variable of sam type, can i declare all my four variable in single line , specifying the datatype?

Yes we can crate in a single of same dataype variables.


while creating a variable as an user , i should remember few point.

1.variable name should not haves any spaces in between.
2.User can use a underscore , to separate the variable names, no other special character is allowed to have in sepaartion
3.variables are case sensitive.




















